>> Todd Gardner: So,
let's talk about some protocols.
Everything that I've been doing in my site
so far has been in plain old HTTP/1.1,
which is the normal HTTP that's been
around forever and ever and ever.
Let's briefly talk about how HTTP works.
So when HTTP starts up, the browser
needs to make a request to the server.
And then the server responds
with what you asked for, and
then the browser makes another request for
the next thing,
and then the server comes back with that,
again, and again and again.
It's a bunch of chatty network traffic
happening over and over and over again,
to get all of the assets,
all of the resources,
all of the requests needed
to build your web page.
So, that's kind of inefficient,
there's a lot of request setup and
tear it down the keeps happening over and
over.
And so, we developed a new protocol,
and we call it HTTP/2.
And the idea is,
we already have this connection set up,
rather than building and
destroying them all the time,
what if we just streamed everything
back through a single TCP connection?
So the browser makes a single request to
the server, and the server returns things,
and more requests can happen
over the same TCP connection.
And we keep getting more and
more stuff back,
it causes us to have lower
overhead of making requests.
Now, that was set several years ago, and
it turns out there was some
complications to how that worked.
So we had HTTP/3 came out.
Now, HTTP/3 is like HTTP/2, except it
operates over a different protocol.
Rather than using TCP,
it uses a protocol called QUIC,
Q-U-I-C, which is a UDP protocol.
I know we're getting down into the depths
of how the Internet works here, but
there's an important reason for this.
So, this is a comparison of all
of the communication that happens
between HTTP/1, or
between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.
Is that, even though HTTP/2, which is both
different options on how it worked on
the left-hand side, operated under one
connection to stream all the requests out
there was still a bunch of stuff
happened to set everything up.
Handshakes that had to happen to set
up secure communication, like TLS,
all the stuff that goes into making
HTTPS happen, was kind of expensive.
And HTTP/3 figured out how to make
that all happen in a single request,
and how to do that over UDP.
So, what's the difference between TCP and
UDP?
Well, so a TCP request on
the right-hand side is guaranteed,
so if you and I are talking over TCP,
I send you something,
and you acknowledge that
you got it by saying ACK.
And then I send you something else,
and then you say, ACK, and
then I send you something else,
and I say ACK.
There's a redundant step of
communication that happens for
every single request to acknowledge
that the other party received
the information that I just sent,
over and over and over.
Whereas UDP doesn't really give a crap
if the other person got it, it says,
here's the thing, here's the thing,
here's the thing,
I don't know if you got it.
I don't care, if you didn't get something
and it's confusing, you'll ask for
it again, and
just start streaming the data out.
Now, it's a little bit more faulty
in theory, but it's way faster,
cuz you don't have to sit there and
wait to make sure the other party got it.
Okay, so this is all like, there's so many
things that happen under the covers for
these things.
That it's totally unreliable to just
do a little demo and show you like,
it's defiantly faster, because nine times
out of ten it might not even be faster,
and it totally send the wrong message.
So, instead, we did some research.
This is some real data that me and
my team did a couple years ago we
were putting some stuff together.
Is we set up web servers in Los Angeles,
Singapore,
and Frankfurt,
somewhere in Europe, I don't know.
And we had the servers respond on HTTP/1,
HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.
And it wasn't just one file, we did
the Hello World app of Bayer HTML and
a simple React application and
a few other things.
And then we just charted how things
worked, for HTTP/1 requests,
HTTP/2 requests, and HTTP/3 requests.
And you can see that it's
about 100% improvement.
It's about twice as fast every time,
between HTTP/1,
HTTP/2, and HTTP/3, in getting faster.
HTTP 1 is the slowest.
>> Todd Gardner: So for
one file, it's reasonably fast.
For a simple website, it's a little
slower, and for a single page app,
it was actually slightly faster than
the whole website, for some reason.
HTTP/2, were about, I don't know,
more than half the size,
faster in terms of its delivery.
And that's in just in terms
of we're not setting up and
tearing down all these
different TCP connections.
But we're still operating over TCP,
and then when we switch to UDP,
it gets quite a bit faster again.
Now, there's still some outliers.
Sometimes things run slow,
it's the Internet,
things are complicated, but in general,
we get faster and faster and
faster the farther we
progress along this chain.